claude/commands/branch.md, before:

---
name: branch
description: Generate and create a git branch name from session context
argument-hint: '[branch-name]'
model: claude-haiku-4-5-20251001
allowed-tools:
  - Bash
  - Read
  - Grep
---

<objective>
Generate and create a git branch name from session context, Linear tickets, and current changes.

If a branch name is provided as an argument, use it directly. Otherwise, infer from context.
</objective>

<arguments>
- **branch-name** (optional): Explicit branch name to use. If omitted, generates from context.
</arguments>

<process>
1. **Check for explicit name**
   - If argument provided, use it directly (skip to step 4)

2. **Gather context**
   - Review conversation to understand the task
   - Check `git status` and `git diff` for insight
   - Look for Linear ticket references in session
   - If no ticket found, use Linear MCP to check assigned/in-progress tickets

3. **Generate branch name**
   - See `<naming_rules>` for format

4. **Confirm and create**
   - Present suggested branch name with rationale
   - Ask "Create this branch?" and wait for confirmation
   - Run `git checkout -b <branch-name>`
   - Verify with `git branch --show-current`
</process>

<naming_rules>
**With Linear ticket (preferred):**
`<team>-<number>-<description>`

- Use team identifier and issue number (e.g., `LIN-156`)
- Generate concise description from session context
- Keep description short and focused

**Without Linear ticket:**
`<type>/<description>`

- Types: `feat`, `fix`, `chore`, `docs`, `refactor`, `test`
- Use kebab-case
- Keep under 50 characters
</naming_rules>

<output_format>
Found Linear ticket LIN-156

Suggested branch: lin-156-dark-mode

Create this branch?
</output_format>

<success_criteria>

- [ ] Context gathered (git state, Linear tickets)
- [ ] Branch name follows naming rules
- [ ] User confirmed before creation
- [ ] Branch created and verified

</success_criteria>

Commit message:

feat(claude): standardize user interaction patterns in commands
Replace manual prompt handling with AskUserQuestion tool for
consistent UX. Adds structured options for confirm/edit/cancel
flows across annotate, branch, check, commit, pr, and review.

claude/commands/branch.md, after:

---
name: branch
description: Generate and create a git branch name from session context
argument-hint: '[branch-name]'
model: claude-haiku-4-5-20251001
allowed-tools:
  - Bash
  - Read
  - Grep
---

<objective>
Generate and create a git branch name from session context, Linear tickets, and current changes.

If a branch name is provided as an argument, use it directly. Otherwise, infer from context.
</objective>

<arguments>
- **branch-name** (optional): Explicit branch name to use. If omitted, generates from context.
</arguments>

<process>
1. **Check for explicit name**
   - If argument provided, use it directly (skip to step 4)

2. **Gather context**
   - Review conversation to understand the task
   - Check `git status` and `git diff` for insight
   - Look for Linear ticket references in session
   - If no ticket found, use Linear MCP to check assigned/in-progress tickets

3. **Generate branch name**
   - See `<naming_rules>` for format

4. **Confirm and create**
   - Present suggested branch name with rationale
   - Use `AskUserQuestion` with options:
     - **Create** — create and checkout the branch
     - **Edit** — provide a different name
     - **Cancel** — abort
   - Run `git checkout -b <branch-name>`
   - Verify with `git branch --show-current`
</process>

<naming_rules>
**With Linear ticket (preferred):**
`<team>-<number>-<description>`

- Use team identifier and issue number (e.g., `LIN-156`)
- Generate concise description from session context
- Keep description short and focused

**Without Linear ticket:**
`<type>/<description>`

- Types: `feat`, `fix`, `chore`, `docs`, `refactor`, `test`
- Use kebab-case
- Keep under 50 characters
</naming_rules>

<output_format>
Found Linear ticket LIN-156

Suggested branch: lin-156-dark-mode

Create this branch?
</output_format>

<success_criteria>

- [ ] Context gathered (git state, Linear tickets)
- [ ] Branch name follows naming rules
- [ ] User confirmed before creation
- [ ] Branch created and verified

</success_criteria>
