claude/commands/commit.md, before:

# Commit Command

Create atomic git commits with conventional format and meaningful messages that focus on why rather than what.

## Usage

```
/commit [commit-message]
```

## Instructions

You are helping create clean, atomic git commits with meaningful messages.

1. **Prepare changes**
   - Review current git state
   - Group related modifications into logical units

2. **Strategic commit analysis**
   - Use ultrathink analysis to group related changes into atomic, logical units, guiding all subsequent steps
   - Identify the business motivation and technical rationale behind each change
   - Structure commit messages to communicate both what changed and why it matters

3. **Create commits**
   - Use conventional commit format
   - Commit description should capture both "what" and "why"
   - Commit body should be used for complex changes or non-obvious reasons
   - Commits should be atomic and represent one logical change
   - Stage appropriate files for each commit
   - Use [commit template](../templates/commit-template.md) for commit format.

4. **Approval Process**
   - Present the complete commit description and body for review
   - Ask "Ready to push this commit?" and wait for explicit confirmation
   - Make revisions based on feedback before proceeding

5. **Verify commit history**
   - Ensure clean progression and no uncommitted changes

## Examples

```bash
# Create commits for current changes
/commit

# Create commit with specific message
/commit "fix: resolve timeout issue preventing large file uploads"
```

Commit message:

docs: add GPG signing failure handling to commit command
Enhance commit command documentation by adding instruction to allow
user retry when git commit fails due to GPG signing issues, improving
user experience during the commit approval process.

claude/commands/commit.md, after:

# Commit Command

Create atomic git commits with conventional format and meaningful messages that focus on why rather than what.

## Usage

```
/commit [commit-message]
```

## Instructions

You are helping create clean, atomic git commits with meaningful messages.

1. **Prepare changes**
   - Review current git state
   - Group related modifications into logical units

2. **Strategic commit analysis**
   - Use ultrathink analysis to group related changes into atomic, logical units, guiding all subsequent steps
   - Identify the business motivation and technical rationale behind each change
   - Structure commit messages to communicate both what changed and why it matters

3. **Create commits**
   - Use conventional commit format
   - Commit description should capture both "what" and "why"
   - Commit body should be used for complex changes or non-obvious reasons
   - Commits should be atomic and represent one logical change
   - Stage appropriate files for each commit
   - Use [commit template](../templates/commit-template.md) for commit format.

4. **Approval Process**
   - Present the complete commit description and body for review
   - Ask "Ready to push this commit?" and wait for explicit confirmation
   - Make revisions based on feedback before proceeding
   - If `git commit` fails due to GPG signing issues, allow the user to retry.

5. **Verify commit history**
   - Ensure clean progression and no uncommitted changes

## Examples

```bash
# Create commits for current changes
/commit

# Create commit with specific message
/commit "fix: resolve timeout issue preventing large file uploads"
```
