claude/commands/pr-annotate.md, before:

---
name: pr-annotate
description: Add self-review comments to PR changes via GitHub review
argument-hint: '[pr-number]'
model: claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929
allowed-tools:
  - Bash
  - Read
  - Glob
  - Grep
---

<objective>
Identify non-obvious code in PR changes and post explanatory comments as a GitHub review.

The walkthrough presents each candidate interactively, then batches accepted comments into a single review.
</objective>

<arguments>
- **pr-number** (optional): PR number to annotate. Detects from current branch if omitted.
</arguments>

<process>
1. **Resolve PR**
   - If argument provided, use it directly
   - Otherwise: `gh pr view --json number -q '.number'`
   - If no PR found: "No PR found for this branch. Run `/pr` first."

2. **Fetch PR metadata**
   - Get diff: `gh pr diff {pr_number}`
   - Get head commit: `gh pr view {pr_number} --json commits -q '.commits[-1].oid'`
   - Get repo: `gh repo view --json owner,name -q '"\(.owner.login)/\(.name)"'`

3. **Phase 1: Find candidates** (subagent)
   - Output before spawning: "Analyzing PR diff for annotation candidates..."
   - Launch one code-review subagent with the diff
   - Agent flags generously — anything matching `<detection_criteria>`
   - Returns JSON:
     ```json
     {
       "candidates": [
         {
           "path": "file.ts",
           "start_line": 38,
           "end_line": 42,
           "snippet": "code...",
           "draft": "explanation"
         }
       ]
     }
     ```
   - Err toward inclusion—filtering happens next
   - **Success criteria for subagent:**
     - [ ] Scanned all changed files in diff
     - [ ] Applied detection criteria consistently
     - [ ] Returned valid JSON matching schema
     - [ ] Each candidate has draft explanation

4. **Phase 2: Filter candidates** (subagent)
   - Output: "Filtering {N} candidates by quality score..."
   - Launch one filtering subagent with Phase 1 output
   - Agent scores each candidate 1-5 per `<scoring_criteria>`
   - Returns JSON:
     ```json
     {
       "scored": [
         {
           "path": "file.ts",
           "start_line": 38,
           "end_line": 42,
           "snippet": "code...",
           "draft": "explanation",
           "score": 4,
           "reasoning": "why"
         }
       ]
     }
     ```
   - Only candidates scoring 4+ proceed to walkthrough
   - Discarded candidates logged with reasoning (visible if user asks)
   - **Success criteria for subagent:**
     - [ ] Scored all candidates from Phase 1
     - [ ] Applied scoring criteria consistently
     - [ ] Each score includes reasoning
     - [ ] Returned valid JSON matching schema

5. **Interactive walkthrough** (OUTPUT GATE per candidate)
   - For each filtered candidate:
     - Output snippet and draft explanation per `<walkthrough_format>`
     - Show draft explanation (or "[needs manual write]" if undraftable)
     - **PROHIBITED after output:**
       - "Let me...", "I'll...", "Now I will..."
       - "Starting with...", "First I'll..."
       - Any action-announcing language
     - IMMEDIATELY use `AskUserQuestion` with options:
       - **Accept** — add to collection as-is
       - **Edit** — revise the explanation, then add
       - **Skip** — discard this candidate
   - Continue until all candidates processed

6. **Confirm submission**
   - Output summary as formatted text: N comments across M files
   - List each comment: `file:line — first 50 chars...`
   - Use `AskUserQuestion` with options:
     - **Submit** — post review immediately
     - **Keep pending** — post as pending review
     - **Cancel** — discard all comments

7. **Post review**
   - Build comments JSON per `<comment_format>`
   - Submit via `gh api` per `<api_call>`
   - Report success with review URL

<anti_patterns>
After presenting findings, NEVER:
- "Let me create/start/begin..."
- "I'll now..."
- "Starting with the first..."
- "Now I will..."
- Announcing intent before user chooses action
</anti_patterns>
</process>
<detection_criteria>
Flag code a typical reviewer might question:

**Non-obvious decisions**

- Alternative approaches exist
- Trade-offs made (performance vs readability, etc.)
- Intentional deviations from conventions

**Complex logic**

- Dense algorithms or transformations
- Nested conditionals (3+ levels)
- Regex patterns
- Bitwise operations
- Recursion

**Contextual changes**

- Modifications tied to external systems
- Changes requiring broader architecture knowledge
- Side effects not obvious from the code

**Balance**

- Skip self-explanatory code
- Skip standard patterns (null checks, error handling boilerplate)
- Prefer fewer, higher-value annotations

</detection_criteria>

<scoring_criteria>
Rate each candidate 1-5. Only 4+ proceed to walkthrough.

**5 — Essential**
Reviewer would definitely ask "why?" without explanation. Non-obvious architectural decision, surprising trade-off, or counterintuitive approach.

**4 — Valuable**
Reviewer would likely pause and wonder. Complex logic benefits from context, or decision isn't self-evident from the code.

**3 — Nice-to-have**
Might help some reviewers. Code is understandable but explanation adds minor clarity.

**2 — Low value**
Most reviewers wouldn't need this. Explanation states what code already shows.

**1 — Noise**
Self-explanatory code. Standard patterns. Would clutter the review.

**Filtering guidance**

- When in doubt, score lower — noise harms more than gaps
- Consider: "Would I personally wonder about this as a reviewer?"
- One high-value comment beats five mediocre ones
  </scoring_criteria>

<tone>
Use the `elements-of-style:writing-clearly-and-concisely` skill.

Write as you would in a 30-second code review.

**Do:**

- "Uses bitwise AND here because status packs multiple flags"
- "Watch out: this modifies shared state"

**Don't:**

- Stiff: "One must consider the implications of this approach"
- Casual: "Yo heads up — bit trick incoming!"
- Padding: "It's worth noting that this section..."

One reason per sentence. Skip filler phrases.
</tone>

<comment_format>
Single line:

```json
{
  "path": "src/utils/parser.ts",
  "line": 42,
  "side": "RIGHT",
  "body": "Explanation..."
}
```

Multi-line range:

```json
{
  "path": "src/utils/parser.ts",
  "start_line": 38,
  "line": 42,
  "start_side": "RIGHT",
  "side": "RIGHT",
  "body": "Explanation..."
}
```

File-level (no line field):

```json
{
  "path": "src/utils/parser.ts",
  "body": "Explanation about the file as a whole..."
}
```

Deleted lines use `"side": "LEFT"` to comment on the removed code.

</comment_format>

<api_call>

```bash
# Build review payload with comments array wrapped in object
jq -n --argjson comments "$COMMENTS_JSON" '{comments: $comments}' > /tmp/review-payload.json

# Post batched review
gh api -X POST "/repos/{owner}/{repo}/pulls/{pr_number}/reviews" \
  -f commit_id="$COMMIT_SHA" \
  -f event="$EVENT" \
  -f body="" \
  --input /tmp/review-payload.json

rm /tmp/review-payload.json
```

- `$COMMENTS_JSON`: Array of comment objects per `<comment_format>`
- `$EVENT`: `COMMENT` to submit, `PENDING` to keep pending
  </api_call>

<walkthrough_format>

```
── src/utils/parser.ts:38-42 ──────────────────────────
│ const result = items
│   .filter(x => x.status & FLAGS.ACTIVE)
│   .reduce((acc, x) => acc | x.permissions, 0);
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Draft: Uses bitwise AND to check ACTIVE flag and OR to
accumulate permissions. Avoids multiple iterations.
```

Use `AskUserQuestion` with options: Accept, Edit, Skip

If undraftable, show `Draft: [needs manual write]` and use `AskUserQuestion` with options: Edit, Skip

</walkthrough_format>

<output_format>
After posting review:

```
✓ Review posted: {review_url}

PR #{pr_number}: {pr_title}
Comments: {comment_count} across {file_count} files
```

---

## ▶ Next Up

**Monitor review** — wait for reviewer feedback

`gh pr view --web` — open PR in browser

---

**Also available:**

- `gh pr checks` — view CI status
- `/review` — substantive code review

---

</output_format>

<success_criteria>

- [ ] PR resolved (from argument or current branch)
- [ ] Phase 1: Candidates found by subagent
- [ ] Phase 2: Candidates filtered (only 4+ scores)
- [ ] Each filtered candidate walked through interactively
- [ ] User confirmed submission action
- [ ] Review posted via GitHub API

</success_criteria>

Commit message:

docs(commands): clarify ambiguous instructions and add missing definitions
- test.md: specify path handling for files vs directories
- pr-review.md: add worktree guidance and comment syntax mapping
- pr.md: clarify test execution flow and category distinctions
- commit.md: define OUTPUT GATE concept
- pr-annotate.md: define undraftable criteria
- lint.md: simplify coverage verification
- review.md: clarify full context gathering rationale

claude/commands/pr-annotate.md, after:

---
name: pr-annotate
description: Add self-review comments to PR changes via GitHub review
argument-hint: '[pr-number]'
model: claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929
allowed-tools:
  - Bash
  - Read
  - Glob
  - Grep
---

<objective>
Identify non-obvious code in PR changes and post explanatory comments as a GitHub review.

The walkthrough presents each candidate interactively, then batches accepted comments into a single review.
</objective>

<arguments>
- **pr-number** (optional): PR number to annotate. Detects from current branch if omitted.
</arguments>

<process>
1. **Resolve PR**
   - If argument provided, use it directly
   - Otherwise: `gh pr view --json number -q '.number'`
   - If no PR found: "No PR found for this branch. Run `/pr` first."

2. **Fetch PR metadata**
   - Get diff: `gh pr diff {pr_number}`
   - Get head commit: `gh pr view {pr_number} --json commits -q '.commits[-1].oid'`
   - Get repo: `gh repo view --json owner,name -q '"\(.owner.login)/\(.name)"'`

3. **Phase 1: Find candidates** (subagent)
   - Output before spawning: "Analyzing PR diff for annotation candidates..."
   - Launch one code-review subagent with the diff
   - Agent flags generously — anything matching `<detection_criteria>`
   - Returns JSON:
     ```json
     {
       "candidates": [
         {
           "path": "file.ts",
           "start_line": 38,
           "end_line": 42,
           "snippet": "code...",
           "draft": "explanation"
         }
       ]
     }
     ```
   - Err toward inclusion—filtering happens next
   - **Success criteria for subagent:**
     - [ ] Scanned all changed files in diff
     - [ ] Applied detection criteria consistently
     - [ ] Returned valid JSON matching schema
     - [ ] Each candidate has draft explanation

4. **Phase 2: Filter candidates** (subagent)
   - Output: "Filtering {N} candidates by quality score..."
   - Launch one filtering subagent with Phase 1 output
   - Agent scores each candidate 1-5 per `<scoring_criteria>`
   - Returns JSON:
     ```json
     {
       "scored": [
         {
           "path": "file.ts",
           "start_line": 38,
           "end_line": 42,
           "snippet": "code...",
           "draft": "explanation",
           "score": 4,
           "reasoning": "why"
         }
       ]
     }
     ```
   - Only candidates scoring 4+ proceed to walkthrough
   - Discarded candidates logged with reasoning (visible if user asks)
   - **Success criteria for subagent:**
     - [ ] Scored all candidates from Phase 1
     - [ ] Applied scoring criteria consistently
     - [ ] Each score includes reasoning
     - [ ] Returned valid JSON matching schema

5. **Interactive walkthrough** (OUTPUT GATE per candidate)
   - For each filtered candidate:
     - Output snippet and draft explanation per `<walkthrough_format>`
     - Show draft explanation, or "[needs manual write]" if undraftable
     - IMMEDIATELY use `AskUserQuestion` with options:
       - **Accept** — add to collection as-is
       - **Edit** — revise the explanation, then add
       - **Skip** — discard this candidate
   - Continue until all candidates processed

   A candidate is **undraftable** when explanation requires context not visible in the diff: external system details, verbal discussions, or domain knowledge the agent lacks. Phase 1 subagent should still return these with `draft: null`.

6. **Confirm submission**
   - Output summary as formatted text: N comments across M files
   - List each comment: `file:line — first 50 chars...`
   - Use `AskUserQuestion` with options:
     - **Submit** — post review immediately
     - **Keep pending** — post as pending review
     - **Cancel** — discard all comments

7. **Post review**
   - Build comments JSON per `<comment_format>`
   - Submit via `gh api` per `<api_call>`
   - Report success with review URL

<anti_patterns>
After presenting findings, NEVER:
- "Let me create/start/begin..."
- "I'll now..."
- "Starting with the first..."
- "Now I will..."
- Announcing intent before user chooses action
</anti_patterns>
</process>
<detection_criteria>
Flag code a typical reviewer might question:

**Non-obvious decisions**

- Alternative approaches exist
- Trade-offs made (performance vs readability, etc.)
- Intentional deviations from conventions

**Complex logic**

- Dense algorithms or transformations
- Nested conditionals (3+ levels)
- Regex patterns
- Bitwise operations
- Recursion

**Contextual changes**

- Modifications tied to external systems
- Changes requiring broader architecture knowledge
- Side effects not obvious from the code

**Balance**

- Skip self-explanatory code
- Skip standard patterns (null checks, error handling boilerplate)
- Prefer fewer, higher-value annotations

</detection_criteria>

<scoring_criteria>
Rate each candidate 1-5. Only 4+ proceed to walkthrough.

**5 — Essential**
Reviewer would definitely ask "why?" without explanation. Non-obvious architectural decision, surprising trade-off, or counterintuitive approach.

**4 — Valuable**
Reviewer would likely pause and wonder. Complex logic benefits from context, or decision isn't self-evident from the code.

**3 — Nice-to-have**
Might help some reviewers. Code is understandable but explanation adds minor clarity.

**2 — Low value**
Most reviewers wouldn't need this. Explanation states what code already shows.

**1 — Noise**
Self-explanatory code. Standard patterns. Would clutter the review.

**Filtering guidance**

- When in doubt, score lower — noise harms more than gaps
- Consider: "Would I personally wonder about this as a reviewer?"
- One high-value comment beats five mediocre ones
  </scoring_criteria>

<tone>
Use the `elements-of-style:writing-clearly-and-concisely` skill.

Write as you would in a 30-second code review.

**Do:**

- "Uses bitwise AND here because status packs multiple flags"
- "Watch out: this modifies shared state"

**Don't:**

- Stiff: "One must consider the implications of this approach"
- Casual: "Yo heads up — bit trick incoming!"
- Padding: "It's worth noting that this section..."

One reason per sentence. Skip filler phrases.
</tone>

<comment_format>
Single line:

```json
{
  "path": "src/utils/parser.ts",
  "line": 42,
  "side": "RIGHT",
  "body": "Explanation..."
}
```

Multi-line range:

```json
{
  "path": "src/utils/parser.ts",
  "start_line": 38,
  "line": 42,
  "start_side": "RIGHT",
  "side": "RIGHT",
  "body": "Explanation..."
}
```

File-level (no line field):

```json
{
  "path": "src/utils/parser.ts",
  "body": "Explanation about the file as a whole..."
}
```

Deleted lines use `"side": "LEFT"` to comment on the removed code.

</comment_format>

<api_call>

```bash
# Build review payload with comments array wrapped in object
jq -n --argjson comments "$COMMENTS_JSON" '{comments: $comments}' > /tmp/review-payload.json

# Post batched review
gh api -X POST "/repos/{owner}/{repo}/pulls/{pr_number}/reviews" \
  -f commit_id="$COMMIT_SHA" \
  -f event="$EVENT" \
  -f body="" \
  --input /tmp/review-payload.json

rm /tmp/review-payload.json
```

- `$COMMENTS_JSON`: Array of comment objects per `<comment_format>`
- `$EVENT`: `COMMENT` to submit, `PENDING` to keep pending
  </api_call>

<walkthrough_format>

```
── src/utils/parser.ts:38-42 ──────────────────────────
│ const result = items
│   .filter(x => x.status & FLAGS.ACTIVE)
│   .reduce((acc, x) => acc | x.permissions, 0);
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Draft: Uses bitwise AND to check ACTIVE flag and OR to
accumulate permissions. Avoids multiple iterations.
```

Use `AskUserQuestion` with options: Accept, Edit, Skip

If undraftable, show `Draft: [needs manual write]` and use `AskUserQuestion` with options: Edit, Skip

</walkthrough_format>

<output_format>
After posting review:

```
✓ Review posted: {review_url}

PR #{pr_number}: {pr_title}
Comments: {comment_count} across {file_count} files
```

---

## ▶ Next Up

**Monitor review** — wait for reviewer feedback

`gh pr view --web` — open PR in browser

---

**Also available:**

- `gh pr checks` — view CI status
- `/review` — substantive code review

---

</output_format>

<success_criteria>

- [ ] PR resolved (from argument or current branch)
- [ ] Phase 1: Candidates found by subagent
- [ ] Phase 2: Candidates filtered (only 4+ scores)
- [ ] Each filtered candidate walked through interactively
- [ ] User confirmed submission action
- [ ] Review posted via GitHub API

</success_criteria>
